<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by OpenOffice.org - see http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml for more info.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">- no title specified</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="Ben Dale"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2016-07-14T23:25:38.44" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content="Ben Dale"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2016-10-21T17:52:07.95" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="," xml:lang="en-US"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style type="text/css">
	@page {  }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
	li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
	<!-- "li span.odfLiEnd" - IE 7 issue-->
	li span. { clear: both; line-height:0; width:0; height:0; margin:0; padding:0; }
	span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
	span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
	* { margin:0;}
	.P1 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:center ! important; font-weight:bold; }
	.P2 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:left ! important; font-weight:bold; }
	.P3 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:left ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P4 { font-size:16pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; }
	.P5 { font-size:16pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:center ! important; }
	.P6 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:left ! important; }
	.P9 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:left ! important; background-color:#999999; font-weight:normal; }
	.Internet_20_link { color:#000080; text-decoration:underline; }
	<!-- ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS -->
	{ }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:8.5in;margin-top:0.7874in; margin-bottom:0.7874in; margin-left:0.7874in; margin-right:0.7874in; "><p class="P4"> </p><p class="P5">Intelligent Systems Club:</p><p class="P5">Rpi Workshop</p><p class="P5">Session 3:</p><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P2">Setup</p><p class="P3">Start TightVNC Viewer” . Login using “raspberrypi.mshome.net:1” in Remote Host: and “pipipi” as the password.</p><p class="P3">Using WinWCP, under the “ToRPI” folder copy “Class3” folder to the “Desktop/projects” folder on the RPI.  </p><p class="P3">Open up a terminal and enter </p><p class="P9">gksu codeblocks</p><p class="P3">Then open under “Desktop/projects/Class3” open the Class3 project file.</p><p class="P2">Part 1: OpenCV introduction</p><p class="P6">OpenCV is an open source library that provides functionality that is common in image processing software. It is cross platform and it's license makes it legal to monetize without explicit permission.</p><p class="P6">We are using this library because it is free and contains support for complex image processing algorithms. The official OpenCV website is <a href="http://opencv.org/" class="Internet_20_link">here</a>, the Github repo is <a href="https://github.com/opencv/opencv" class="Internet_20_link">here</a>, and the documentation</p><p class="P6">can be found <a href="http://docs.opencv.org/3.1.0/" class="Internet_20_link">here. </a></p><p class="P6"> </p><p class="P6">Color Segmentation:</p><p class="P6">Run the Class3 project by hitting the Gear + Green Arrow.</p><p class="P6">Use the sliders to adjust the color value to find certain fruit.</p><p class="P6"> </p><p class="P3"> </p><p class="P3"> </p><p class="P3"> </p><p class="P3"> </p></body></html>